Cool. Hello everyone and uh welcome to CME 295 transformers and large language models. So my name is Afin and I will be teaching this class with Shervin who's in the back and uh before I start I'm just going to introduce ourselves. Um, so we're twin brothers and uh we actually had kind of a similar background. So we both went to a school in France called Salbar and then we each went our way. So on my end I went to MIT and then Shervin went to Stanford to do the ICME masters program and after that I guess our um industry background is very similar as well. So I first went to Uber and then Shervin came to Uber as well and then Sharvin left to Google and I went to Google and then very recently I joined Netflix and Shervin joined Netflix as well and we've been working on large language models. Um so yeah I guess we have like technical backgrounds and mostly oriented towards LLMs. Okay. So why are we doing this class? Um so since 2020 uh Shervin and I have been specializing in NLP and we've been giving this class uh in a format of a workshop that was done in a yearly basis. So in 2021 2022, 2023, 2024, you know, CH GPD came in 2022 and suddenly there was a lot of interest for LLMs and so uh it's actually last spring that we started to offer this class as a Stanford course that is now called CME 295 and this is the second instance. >> Boom. Um so what can you expect from this class? So first of all are basically uh everywhere now and I guess our goal here is twofold. So the first one is to learn about the underlying mechanism that makes all this work and we're going to see the transformer which is the foundational architecture uh that makes all this work. And then the second thing is to know how these LLMs are trained and where they are applied. So in case you're still wondering if this class is good for you, um I would say that this class is great for people who just in general have an interest in this field either because you wanted to make it your career goal. uh if you want to be I don't know research scientists or an ML scientist or if you want to uh develop like a personal project that relies on LLMs to some extent to just like knowing the caveats I guess what works what doesn't or just if you're in a separate field and you just want to know how this whole AI geni LLMs thing works and how you can apply it to your domain. Okay. So now in terms of prerequisites, I would say that at a very minimum um you should have some foundations in ML like basically know what a how a model is trained, what a neural network is uh and also some basics in linear algebra. So basically how matrices are multiplied for instance. Uh but even even if you have kind of a developing um I guess competency in these fields I guess it's fine. We still be here to help you out. I guess this is like the ideal set of prerequisites. Cool. So still on the logistics. Um, so this class will be held every Friday from 3:30 to 5:20 and it will be held here. So this class is two units and you have the choice to either take it as a letter or credit nonredit. So, as you could tell from the from the setup, we're basically recording this class. And if you cannot for some reason attend this uh you know this time this slot, uh we'll make sure with to um make the recordings available either tonight like every Friday night or on Saturday. So in terms of the grades um so what we're doing for this quarter is to have two exams. So one is the midterm which will be happening uh during our fifth instance which is October 24th and then the second exam will be the final exam which will be held uh like in the on the you know in the week of the December 8th. So date is still TVD so we'll let you know. Cool. Um so every time we have a lecture we'll be posting the slides and the recordings on the website and in case you're interested we also have the syllabus in there so you can know a little bit what are the topics that we'll be talking about. uh and uh the class textbook is uh this super study guide transformer LMS so we have a copy here in case you want to take a look um so yeah I guess a lot of the concepts that we have in this class will actually be in the book so I guess it's a helpful way to follow this as well and also we did uh some kind of very short condensed version of this whole class that we called the VIP cheat sheet so this one is available on GitHub in case you're um you're interested. Uh and yeah, we also translated it into a number of languages now. Um by the way, if your language is not there, uh let us know and uh yeah, happy to work on that as well together. Okay, cool. Uh I think it's the last things on the logistics part. So in terms of announcements, we'll be posting things on Canvas. In case you have any questions, you can of course reach out to us. Uh, but there's also a tab on canvas that's called ED. Uh, I'm sure you're familiar. Um, so yeah, just click on that, just post your question and then Shervin and I would be responding. And, uh, yeah, I guess to reach out to us, you have this mailing list or just like, you know, we're just two, so just, uh, ping us. Cool. So, on the logistics, do we have any questions so far? And one thing I forgot to mention is that given that we're recording this class, um I guess if you're asking a question, it may not be super clear for the viewer what your question was. So I'm going to make an effort to just repeat your question. It will sound weird, but yeah, I try to not forget. But yeah, so yeah, any questions so far on the logistics? Yep. So the question is whether there are like coding parts in the exams. So the answer is no. So the exams will purely focus on concepts that we see in class and actually it's not meant to you know trap you. So I guess if you follow the class if uh you know you see the slides and like the concepts that we see should be fine. Yeah. Oh yeah. Uh question is if you're weight listed what do you do? Um I think so by experience you know a lot of people will kind of finalize their schedule. Some people will drop some won't. In case you're still weight listed uh you know come talk to us but I'm pretty confident uh you know it's going to be okay because I think the weight list right now is like six. So yeah I think you should be fine. Cool. Yeah. Uh they will be on the website and we'll make sure to um also post the link on canvas. Yeah. Uh so the question was where are the slides and they're on the website. Cool. Yeah. So question is on the waiting of the exams. So yeah there is no homework. So 50% is midterm, 50% is final and no no grades I mean no weights are from that in particular I mean if this slot is conflicting with something just uh keep in mind that we are recording this so I mean it's fine if you if you cannot attend let's say session yeah >> sorry oh um is a question that the final is about just the second half of the class. Um, we've not uh we have not uh written the exam yet, but I think this is something we're thinking of. So, yeah, the final is probably going to be the second half about the second half of the topics. Cool. Okay, long story short, 50% midterm, 50% exam, final exam, and uh yeah, it's a fun class. Cool. So, with that, I'm going to just slowly start the class. Um, so another thing that I wanted to mention was every time we're talking about something you will see that at the bottom of the slide there would be a source. It's mostly for so first to credit whatever we're quoting but also uh for you to kind of dig into those material a little bit more in case you're interested. Uh because of course we have only like two hours per week and we only have nine or 10 weeks. So there's nowhere near the you know enough time for us to cover everything. And the second disclaimer is you will see that the field is full of abbreviations. So I myself was completely scared of them when I started. Uh but hopefully by the end of the class you will have a mental mapping of what these abbreviations mean respect to what they correspond to. Um so yeah so if you have that mental mapping towards the end of the class then we'll know we did a good job. So with that um let's start and I guess we will start at the very high level because I would just assume that um I guess we're starting from scratch um and we're going to talk about NLP in general. So NLP is going to be our first abbreviation. So NLP stands for natural language processing and it is a field that is around like manipulating text just computing things with text and at a very high level can basically classify NLP tasks into three buckets. So the first bucket is what we call classification. So we have an input text as an input and then what we want is to predict something. So one example is you have a movie review and you want to predict whether uh the sentiment is positive, negative or neutral. Uh so that's one example. You can also have intent detection. Uh just you know knowing what for instance the person want to do. So let's suppose you say I want to create an alarm for tomorrow. So the intent here is create an alarm. So also to detect a language. So for instance, if you write in French, you want to detect that that text is in French. Topic modeling. The second category is what we call multi-classification. So we still have a text that's input, but this time we predict more than one thing. So you have a number of tasks in that bucket as well. So one that is very popular is called named entity recognition aka neer. So what that task does is given an input text we want to basically label some specific words like for instance identifying whether something is a location or a time and so on. And then you have some other tasks as well that are a little bit more on the linguistic sides. uh I think they're less trendy now but I guess 10 years ago it was something that people would study a lot. Uh so part of speech tagging which is about just figuring out which word is you know noun a verb etc or some parsing related tasks so dependency or constituency parsing and then the last bucket which is very popular these days is the generation bucket. So you have an a text as inputs and you also have text as outputs and here the length can be variable meaning you don't know what the length of your output text will be beforehand. So here you have several tasks. So for instance you have machine translation so for something in English and I wanted to let's say uh German question answering. So typically you know the chat GPT gemini that you're using you know the assistant. So you ask a question and you have a response and then you have like other um tasks as well like summarization you want to summarize an article let's say or just generate something. So something can be generate codes generate a poem can also be a lot of things. Cool. So now what we will do is go through these tasks one by one to just illustrate what people typically handle with. So we're going to start with the first bucket which is the classification bucket. And here we're going to illustrate this with the sentiment extraction task. So let's suppose we have a sentence. This teddy bear is so cute. We want our model to predict you know this to be a positive sentiment. So typically what you would use is you know data sets that are around know sentiment extraction data set. So I mentioned movie reviews. So this is IMDb critics but you also have reviews about products. So, Amazon reviews or you know tweets now I guess it's called X so X posts and the way you would evaluate such outputs would be by typically using traditional classification metrics. Um so you have accuracy which is you know how many what is the percentage of the observations that you correctly predicted but you also have two key metrics which I'm just going to uh remind I'm not sure if everyone knows about them. So one is precision which is out of all the positive predictions that you made which ones were correct and then the second one is recall. Out of all the true labels, how many of them did you correctly predict as being positive? And uh you have this metric called the F1 score which basically takes the harmonic mean of precision and recall to just give you one number. So now you may wonder you know why do you need all these metrics? So the short answer is that sometimes you have tasks and data sets where your classes are very imbalanced. So for instance you can have I don't know 99% of your data set that is a positive label and then only 1% of the data set which is negative. And so here if you take like a metric like accuracy it would be very misleading because if you have a model that would predict everything as the majority class then you would have a you know great classifier but that's not the case. So that's why precision and recall really play a role. So that's the first one. Okay. So now let's move to the second category of NLP tasks. So this this one is the multiclassification category. So you have an input text and you predict multiple things and we're illustrating this with the neer task which as I mentioned is about identifying the category of given words. And so here for instance we want to identify teddy bear as being an entity. Um I guess for that you would use classification metrics but not at the sentence level but more either at the token level or at the entity type level. And by by that I mean let's suppose you have a category um let's say location and you want to know how well you're predicting words in that category. So you would typically aggregate these metrics um as a function of that. Cool. Okay. Let's go to the last category which is as I mentioned the most popular one. So this one is text in text out. So I'm illustrating this with the machine translation task which is around translating a text from a source language to a target language. So here you have the example with English to French. So cute teddy bear is reading. Um so for that I guess it's harder to get data sets because here you you need to have pairs of text. So you have a very popular data set that's called WMT which stands for workshop on machine translation. And that one contains a bunch of paired sequences in different languages. Uh so for instance you have the English, French, English, German coming from the European Parliament data set for instance. Um okay so to evaluate those the to evaluate the performance of your model it's actually a lot more tricky because as you can imagine you can have many different ways to translate something. I'm sure many of us in the room are, you know, bilingual, triang trilingual. Um, so yeah, that's that's what is making it this hard. So, in the past, people have used several rule-based metrics to do that. So, one that you may have heard is blue. Blue stands for bilingual evaluation under study and it is a measure of how well your translation stands with respect to a reference text. Same story for Rouge which is actually a suite of metrics um but kind of captures that in a different way. And uh you will see that the machine learning community is funny because blue I'm not sure if you know French means blue but rouge means reds. So I guess they tried to kind of uh add some some fun in this. Um but the problem with these metrics is that you always need a reference text. So you basically need labels and in practice having labels is very cost expensive. It takes a lot of time, a lot of money to uh get labels and we will see later in the class that with the progress that we have made in the LM space or that the community has made in the LM space, we can actually forgo this reference based metrics and go towards a more reference free uh kind of metrics and we will see that later on. And then the last metric that I would say that people sometimes use is called perplexity. And perplexity only looks at the probabilities that are output by the model. And it basically quantifies how surprised the model is by its outputs. So blue and rouge the higher the better. Proplexity the lower the better. And I guess um LLMs have been a kind of a hot topic since 2022, but actually the field goes way back way before that uh that year. So in the 80s, we'll see it in a second, but uh there's a class of models that were actually kind of thought of even in the 80s and the 90s we had LSTMs that we'll see also in a second. Um but the problem was during that time we didn't have the internet we didn't have a lot of compute and I guess this was one of the limiting factors which prevented these models from like the the models from today from being trained and then more recently uh we've had several advances so word tovec was really one of the uh kind of pioneering um work in just um computing meaningful embedding settings and we'll see it in a second. And then of course we had the transformers which were part of a paper that was published in 2017 which is basically at the foundation of of the models that you see today. And then uh you know these models they just were scaled up both by compute but also in in terms of like the data that was used to train them. And you know that's how LLMs were dubbed. And I guess these are more like the 2020s. But yeah, I guess we'll see those. Cool. Any questions on I guess the high level. Everyone good? Cool. So I guess the first question that I want to ask ourselves is what we want to do is to have a model that handles text. But models they understand numbers. They don't really understand text. So we need to somehow do something with that text to make it more quantifiable, something that a model can understand. So if you look at a sentence for instance, a cute teddy bear is reading, you first need to ask yourself how can you cut this sentence to pass it to a model. So this part is called tokenization and what it entails is basically cutting the text respect to some arbitrary unit of text. So there are several ways of doing this. I guess the first way is doing it completely arbitrarily. So here for instance you would have a that would be one unit of text would be another unit of text bear would be another one and so on. And by the way the unit of test is called a token which is why uh the method method is called tokenization. Another way would be to just separate by words. But I guess uh we would have you know always pros and cons. I guess um one of the goals that we want to achieve is for us to then be able to represent these tokens in a meaningful way. So, one con with doing this at the word level is you will end up with words that look similar but that are actually considered as different tokens. And I guess the limitation here is you will need to compute embeddings for these similar yet different tokens and somehow make their embedding similar. So I'll give you an example. So let's suppose I have the word bear and then you have another word plural form bears. So these two words they are very similar just one is singular the other one is plural. If we go ahead with the word level tokenization then we will end up with just two different entities which are basically yeah just considered as different. same with run and then runs you know variations of verbs. So for that reason people have uh kind of um dug into a category of token tokenizers that are called subword tokenizers which is around leveraging roots of words in order to find what are the common roots that we can find these in these words. So for instance, for bear and bears, you would have the bear particle that would be uh kind of shared. And so I guess the pro is that you get to leverage the root of the words. But then the con here is that your sequence will be longer. And we will see why this is a con. Um I guess later on I guess I can give you a preview. Um so the complexity of these models is also a function of the sequence length. So the more you have the more tokens you have to process the more time it would take for your models model to run because it needs to basically process all these tokens. So that's one con. So pro is it leverages the root of words. Con is it just makes your sequences longer. Okay, you have a last category of uh kind of ways of tokenizing things which is just going at the character level just like taking all characters. So here I guess uh you and I when we write I don't know a message we typically have uh sometimes the misspellings and with the subword uh way of tokenizing things you may not uh be able to recognize a word that has been misspelled and this is something that the character level tokenizer can uh I guess take into consideration But here the problem is you have a sequence length that's much much longer which will make your model I guess take much more time to process uh this sequence. So that's one con. And then uh the other con is I guess when you want to represent each of these tokens I guess it's very hard to know what a representation of a letter really means. Like what does the representation of the letter U mean? Very hard. Cool. So I have just a a quick recap. So word level is a super naive way, super simple way of um I guess dividing your text into arbitrary units. Um but then the problem is as we mentioned we do not leverage the root of words and uh I did not mention this but there's a term whenever you cut something and then um at inference time when you want to make a prediction I guess one uh prerequisite that you have is that you need to have the token that you saw at training time you need to have it in your training sets. And the problem is let's suppose at inference time you cut your text into words and let's suppose you have not seen a word at training time you will need to mark it as unknown and so this thing is called OOV out of vocabulary. So luckily the subboard level tokenizer mitigates that problem. Uh so you have like a a lower risk of OOV but still you you can have and as we mentioned in terms of the pro uh you leverage the root of the words um and then character level uh you know it's robust to our misspellings and our casing errors uh but the problem is it makes computations just like much slower and uh your sequences would be like very very long uh which will also make your I guess inference time much higher. Does that sound good? I guess this is really the foundation of uh I guess how to handle things with text. But yeah, does that make sense overall? Cool. Okay. So now, okay, what we did is we took an input text. What we did is we cut it into parts that are basically tokens. So in order for our model to understand it these tokens, we need to find a representation for each of them. So here uh we're going to take a look at this. So that's called word representation or more um I guess in a more correct way it should be token representation. So we want to find a way to represent each of these tokens. So the simple and naive way to do this would be to just assign a one hot vector for each word or for each token. So for instance let's suppose if let's suppose we have a vocabulary of three tokens book soft and teddy bears. We would have let's say soft that is a one 0 0 vector teddy bear that is let's say a 0 1 0 vector and book that is let's say a 0 01 vector so this is called one hot encoding oh e we'll typically see so cool yeah this is a a way to represent of our tokens but um basically what people want to do is compare these tokens to basically see which ones are more similar to what other ones. So a common similarity measure that people use is something called cosine similarity. Not sure if you have heard of it. Um so you can think of it as just seeing what angle these vectors make in the n dimensional space. And if I guess they are pointing in the right in the same direction then maybe they're similar maybe if they're orthogonal maybe they're kind of independent and if they're completely opposite then maybe they're opposite. That's basically the mental model we want to uh go into. So the problem is if you represent your tokens in a one hot fashion, you will end up with all your vectors being orthogonal to one another. So that's the problem. So ideally what we want is for tokens that mean the same or similar to basically have a high similarity and for tokens that are not similar like on like about different things to be more like or sodom. So here I just for illustrative purposes uh teddy bears are soft. So you want teddy bear and soft to be I guess with a high similarity and let's say teddy bear and book which is kind of independent you want them to be closer to zero. So that's what you want. That's what you have with one hot encoding and that's what you want. Yeah. Sorry. Oh, I see. Uh, the question is why do you care about the norm? Um, so I guess cosine similarity is actually normalized by the norms. So it's um dot product. Oh, you mean why did I just put dot product here instead of the Oh, I see. And your question is why do we not care about the norm? Um, cool. I guess the viewers know the question. Um I guess these measures they all you know measures they're all ways to try to capture these uh kind of similarity uh things. Um so I guess why do you not care about the norm? H I guess it's how people have tried to kind of quantify that. Um I I guess you will need to see how your vectors are trained and whether the norm would be indicative of something. Um I guess the best answer I can give you is I guess this is a measure. This is not the perfect measure. Um yeah people may use also product as a as a measure but yeah I don't have like a great answer for you. Cool. But as long as you capture, I guess how these vectors they're um they're pointing. I guess typically what you care about is the angle between them. Um but yeah, typically you don't really take into consideration the the N. Cool. Any questions? Any other questions? Yeah. Yeah. It's a great question. So question is around size of vocabulary and how that would inform the choice with respect to word, subword and how that changes across languages. It's a great question. Um, so I would say it really depends first of all on the task that you're trying to achieve. If your task is just about one language, you will just uh take that same language. You would typically go with a subword tokenizer just because of the reasons that we mentioned here. Um, so I guess subwords is a nice trade-off between being able to identify uh words by their roots like leveraging that but also running less into the OOV uh risk. Um so uh in terms of the size I know that people they've uh you know like try different things. I think uh typically for English you would target something on the order of tens of thousands of vocabulary size uh but you know like nowadays the models uh there are multilingual they're also about codes so you will see that the vocabulary size now is sometimes on the order of hundreds of thousands uh okay so with respect to Chinese so I guess you have this uh you know difference in characters that you're using so for Latin I guess so it's the alphabet we're all accustomed to but of course for the other ones uh you have something similar but in uh I guess the the target language character um so yeah I would say order of magnitude tens of thousands for one language hundreds of thousands if it's like multilingual um yeah these are the order of magnitude that you want to target for cool Yeah. Great question. So question is how do you get those embeddings? So it's actually the next slide. So we're going to talk about this. Cool. Great. So okay. So now that we know that the one hot encoding is not a good way to represent tokens, what we want to do is to learn those embeddings from the data. So I mentioned that there was this um you know um paper that came out in the 2010s. So I think it was 2013 that was called Vtovec. And the reason why it was so popular is because they showed a very intuitive and interpretable way of seeing these embeddings. Uh because they were saying saying something like okay king is to queen what this is to that like Paris is to France what Berlin is to Germany. So there was basically a way to make sense of the embeddings. So now the question is how did they do that? So they had two ways of computing these uh embeddings. So one way was called continuous bag of words. The other one was called skipgram. But they all rely on the same idea which is let's just leverage text that we have and then try to predict something that is part of the text based on let's say the context. So for instance, continuous pack of words. The goal is you take into consideration the words that are around a given target words and your goal is to predict that target words. And skip gram is kind of the opposite. You go from uh a target word and you want to predict the words that are around it. So I guess this task is commonly called a proxy task. Because at the end of the day in this exercise, what we care about is not necessarily to predict the next word or at least not yet. Our goal is to learn a representation of these words that are meaningful. And so here the idea is if you have a model that somehow knows how to predict let's say the next word then it means that your model has some understanding of how language works which is basically what you want. You basically want an embedding that is reflective of uh I guess what languages which is u you know king and queen or you know or similar you know Paris and France like this is the capital you want to have these associations embedded in the representation and let's go through a very simple example of what that looks Like so here in our example, let's suppose that our proxy task is about predicting the next word. So here what we take is a very vanilla neural network model which basically receives a vector of size V has some multiplication and a bias term to get like hidden state and then uh another set of multiplications to get our final vector. So here it's basically a a very simple neural network. Uh so the input is of size V. The hidden layer is of size D which is typically much smaller than the vocabulary. So vocabulary is typically like tens of thousands or hundreds of thousands. So D is typically hundreds like 768 for instance is is one example of dimension. So it's much much smaller. So what we're trying to do is to learn the word representation through this proxy task. And what we're going to do is try to consider a words as input and predict the next word. So let's go with the first word of the sequence. So by the way I use token and words interchangeably. Um so let's suppose we have the word a and we want to predict the next word which is the word cute. So what we do is we take the word a we take the one hot encoding representation and we pass it through the network. So here if you're familiar with neural networks so here you have I guess a multiplication between I guess a matrix and and this vector. So you have a hidden state representation which is a vector of size D. So here let's suppose it's 2 1.9. So D equ= 2 and then you have I guess another pass here. uh and then you get after softmax a set of probabilities which are around seeing what is the next word. So in this example we have uh a vocabulary of size six. So the first word is predicted with probability 02 second word 4 and then the other words are all 0.1 in this example. So let's suppose that we want to somehow be able to maximize our prediction to be the second word of the vocabulary which is the point 4. So we basically compare the prediction with uh I guess 0 1 0 0 which is a representation of the second word of the vocabulary and then we you know do the back prop we you know update the weights. Not sure if everyone is familiar with that part. Uh but the idea here is once you obtain a prediction you compute a loss. So typically cross entropy which will determine how far off you are from the true answer and based on that difference you're going to update the weights in order to make your prediction closer to the truth. So that's what you do and then you repeat that process. Let's suppose you take the word cute which as we said is the second word in the vocabulary. So the one hot encoding representation is 0 1 0 0 0. So you go through that uh you know network uh you have a hidden state like the vector is 08.4 before you do that again. And what you want to do is to predict the next token. And here's teddy bear. And so you see now your model in this example is predicting the next word to be kind of like uniform, but you want to somehow maximize the probability for teddy bear. So you go about doing this again and again for all the words. And at the end of the day, you obtain a model that learns how to predict the next words, which is basically the proxy task. And what you're going to do is to take the representation that the model learns, which is the the green units. So what happens now is every time you have a word you just represent that as a one hot encoding representation and you just like multiply this with these weights and then you obtain the green representation and that is your war representation. Does that make sense? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Great question. Yes. Great question. So the question is about what does V correspond to and why there's only six. So yes, in this example, we only have six possible words, which is basically the vocabulary size, just like very um kind of a toy example because in practice there's many more. Um so I guess uh that's one of the challenges with language. So you can technically have many variation of words which is why if you take a word level way to divide your text into tokens you can end up with the vocabulary that's like very big because you need to account for all the variations of given words. Uh and the other thing that I want to point out is um let's suppose you have a vocabulary size of six and it's the six words that you saw at training time. But what what happens if if at inference time you have a word that you have not seen at training time? And so the answer for that is typically what people do is they reserve a spot for what they call an unknown token or out of vocabulary token which is basically um can think of it as you know a bucket for everything that we could not have we we were not able to identify. So if let's suppose at inference time you have a token that you were not able to identify, they will all take that representation which is the unknown token representation. Um and it's by the way something that I guess the word level tokenizer has kind of trouble to do because you will have a much bigger chance of having out of vocabulary tokens. word level subword level will have a lower chance and then character level uh I guess you yeah you don't have that problem does that answer your your question >> yeah any Great, great question. So, first question is when do you know when you're done? So the thing with the proxy task is when you train your model I guess your true objective is to not really learn I mean in this case to learn how to predict the next word your objective is to have meaningful representations but what you can do is to somehow track the loss function for the proxy task that you're pursuing but then also taking into consideration that this is not necessarily your end goal. So I guess one uh you know very reasonable way of going about doing this is just to wait until your model converges. So here what you do is you track the loss as a function of so there's this term epoch just how many times your model sees the training set and so you compare this this different curves and when this converges this is typically like a good time to you know stop stop the training process and like just see if that makes sense depends on your downstream task of course but that's one um okay so your second question sorry can you repeat the Second question. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, great question. So, so the question is how do you know when the generation stops? I guess like otherwise it will stop. Uh, it will never stop. So, yeah, exactly. So, you have some special tokens. Typically you have end of sequence uh end of sequence. So typically when you have the end of sequence token generated then it's when when it stops. All right. So second question was um what informs the size of the hidden layer? Um, I would say it's a trade-off uh because you want the embedding to be rich enough that it can be informative for your downstream task. So for instance, if you want to somehow get an embedding of let's say your sentence um and if you want to let's say do a very very specialized task super you know like with a lot of different outcomes maybe you want a vector that really captures that. So maybe you want a bigger vector. But if you have like a very simple task, maybe a smaller vector might make sense. Um, so I guess the size of your hidden dimension also impacts the complexity of whatever you're running after because of course if you have longer vectors, you'll have more computation. So your inference will be probably more uh expensive etc. So I guess there's a lot of factors. So I guess just to recap, one is how complicated your desk task is. Second one is uh how sensitive are you with like latency cost all these things. So it's really a trade-off but out there you would typically see embeddings of you know of hundreds or thousands. Um of course you know these models they've been growing so number may change but that's the the order of magnitude that you're looking at. Right. This is indeed empirical. Yeah. Yeah. I guess you can also rely on like what others found uh and just go from that. Yeah. But 768 and Yeah. Like these numbers are are things that people typically take. Yeah. Cool. Yeah. Good question. So, um the question is how can you distinguish words that are spelled the same but in different context? So, you're way ahead of me. Uh so this is basically the basics and we're going to tackle uh methods that can tackle these problems of just contextualizing the word in the sentence. So yeah, so we'll see that in in a bit. Cool. I'm not uh uh I'm not on time, so I'll I'll try to get moving. Um so okay so now what we did was see how we could learn representations of tokens but I guess you may also want to get representations of you know sentences or you know pieces of text. So one very naive way to do that with what we saw before is to take something like the average of words let's say the word representations but the problem is you you know lose a lot of meaning you lose uh the order you lose um and I guess here I think you pointed out very well uh the representations that you learn are token specific regardless of where they're at. So that's why we have a class of models that aim at capturing the sequential nature of you know how text appears. So we're going to talk about RNN which stands for recurrent neural network. So what RNNs do is instead of processing words one at a time, what they do is they keep a hidden representation of the sentence so far and they consider tokens one at a time. So as I mentioned before, this technique was actually you introduced uh like a fair amount of time ago. also in the 80s. Um, and what this model does is it takes into consideration the order at which words appeared or tokens appeared. And so in this example um you start the I guess processing at the very beginning of the sentence. you have some uh dummy um hidden state that is called a typically noted a or h it's called a hidden state activation or even sometimes a context vector and you have some kind of a mod module that takes into account the hidden state so far and the word at time step t. So here time step one. So here what it does is it takes in the meaning of the sentence so far and takes into consideration the words that is happening now and it produces an output vector that here can be used to you know try to predict the next word. So for instance here we have this hidden state and this um uh the representation of the words that then you know you have some matrix multiplications in this in this blue box and you have an output vector that you try to you know train on predicting the next words and then you keep on doing that by by keeping this hidden state keeping track of this hidden states and so you repeat the process and I guess the way you would interpret this hidden states is it's a representation of the se sequence process so far. So the good thing with RNN is now the word order matters and you're also able to encode the sentence in a more natural way. So let's see roughly how it works. So we have the same uh favorite example. So cute teddy bear is reading. So you would have the token A. You find the one hot encoding vector. You pass it through your network. You compute the hidden states. You try to predict cute. But then you keep track of the hidden states and then you input that into another uh module and then you also consider next words. So you consider not only the word itself but also the hidden states of I guess a sentence so far and you try to predict the next word again and again and again. So this is RNN. So RNNs were used for a bunch of tasks and just like mapping that straight to the categories that we saw before for classification purposes. You can basically use the hidden state of the last word in your sentence. For instance, if you want to predict the you know the review like the sentiment of a review, you would take basically the the last last vector here and try to project it into the space of uh the predictions or the labels that you want to predict on. So for instance, if you want positive or negative, we basically project that vector into that space. You can do that here for multi classification. So you would basically have the representation of the token of interest and you would project that or for generation you would basically process the whole source text and then have uh kind of the context vector aka activation vector aka hidden state at the end of your processing which will then be used to decode the output prediction. So this is how you would use an RNN for like each of these tasks. So the reason why you have not really heard of RNN's like this like these days is because they had uh you know some pros but a lot of cons. So one of the cons is that the meaning of the sentence is basically solely encapsulated into this hidden state. So you have this problem of long r long long range dependencies which basically um like impacts your ability to quote unquote remember what the models saw in the past which is why you have another class of models that try to build on RNN. So this one is called LSTMs, long shortterm memory. And the goal of that extension is to have a way to somehow keep track of the things that are quote unquote important to remember on top of the hidden state that we talked about. So here you have uh a of t which is you know your activation um like basically the the sequence so far encoded in there and then you have another quantity that you track that is called the cell states. It's noted C here. So this architecture aimed at I guess improving that piece but I guess it was not perfect either. But yeah so that was uh like the main um issue of RNN based methods which is that they have this issue of kind of forgetting what was in the past. So you will see in the literature that this phenomenon is called vanishing gradient and the reason why it's called that way. So I know we're kind of running out of time but I'm going to just explain that part. So in order for you to predict let's say the last words you're basically dependent on every hidden state that came before that. So far so good. And so whenever you want to update the weights of your model to match the prediction here with the actual prediction, when you do the back propagation, you somehow need to take into account that the loss the value here is basically not only a matter of this computation but also this computation or this computation that basically happen in a sequential manner. So you have this kind of uh um this phenomenon of trying to I guess back propagate through time. But the problem is in practice when you kind of write that down. So it's a very ugly formula. But when you write that down, it ends up being a product of of a bunch of quantities that can so if it's greater than one, then it's exploding. If it's less than one, it's vanishing because if you multiply a lot of things that are less than one, it just goes to zero. So I guess if you have something that you're trying to update that goes to zero, you basically have trouble just like, you know, doing your updates. So that's a high level intuition. This is not the focus of this class which is why I'm not going into the detail of these ugly formulas. But I hope you get the idea that uh for kind of remembering things from the past, it's not doing a great job because of this uh sequential um I guess uh characteristic. Does that make sense? Okay. I hope the next thing will make a bit more sense. But before that I'll just recap what we saw. So our goal is to represent text. So we first started with represented representing words or tokens which was what we tried to do with word tove and we saw that you know it was a good way to leverage you know proxy test to learn this representation but we had a bunch of limitations and one of them that you mentioned was that it was not aware of the context uh and also the word order didn't count. Um and so you have this other class of methods that is able to take into consideration uh the words but then they have some trouble keeping track of things when the sequence gets very long and you have this problem of vanishing gradients or long range dependencies. So whenever you see this term it's basically referring to that and also another thing that I have not mentioned but the computations are very slow. So when you want to train these models at training time in order to predict this word you basically need to compute all the hidden states before. So where your when your sequence gets very long just gets uh like it just takes a very long time. So for all of these reasons for for I guess all these what reason? So for the fact that um the model has trouble remembering things from the past. People have tried having more direct connections between something and the thing from the past. And this is the idea behind attention. So what attention does is it tries to have a direct link between what we're trying to predict and something from the past. So in this example, let's suppose I'm trying to translate an English sentence into a French one. So here I guess the input sentence is given. I'm you know computing the hidden state. You know I'm processing words one at a time. This is my traditional RNN. So a cute teddy bear is reading. So here I have a hidden state that I'm then decoding. And you can imagine that when wanting to generate the next word of my translation, it would be great if I knew what word I'm trying to predict. Or in other words, it would be great if I could take a peek at a certain area of the input text. So the idea behind attention is to have a direct link between what you're trying to predict and things before. This is the idea behind attention. Um and so it was introduced in 2014 and uh yeah again this is trying to kind of solve for these long range uh dependencies issues and so yeah this example want to do that and this concept is going to actually be key for this class because we're going to see that the attention mechanism is the thing that is going to make everything I mean most of the things work and this is actually the main principle that the transformer paper relies on. So the transformer which is the core architecture that we will see in this class has been introduced like or was introduced in 2017 in this paper named attention is all you need. So even from the title you can see that you know the authors wanted to just rely on that on that part. So what the authors tried to do was to move away from these sequential way of processing the text and instead let the model just have direct connections with all parts of the text at once. So that is called self attention. Uh so they tried that on translation tasks and they just realized that you know it was uh giving great results. So back to the example that we're still using a cute teddy bear is reading here. What we would say is that in order to compute the representation of the token teddy bear, we're going to look at all the other tokens in the sequence at once and directly with direct links. So I guess back to your question here we would have a representation of teddy bear that would be unique to the context that it is part of. So back to your question about river bank and uh uh robbing a bank like here the bank would have different representations. So this is the idea I guess does the idea roughly make sense? And again this is called the self attention mechanism. How am I doing on time? Late. Late. Okay cool. Um so okay so this is the idea. Uh so now I'm going to just introduce another set of ideas which is more terminology but it's going to be very important. So when you want to express something in terms of something else we use the words key the sorry query key and value Q K and V. So in this example our goal is to figure out what other tokens is the query teddy bear more similar to. So here the question is okay you have a query and you want to see what other tokens are most similar and so what you're going to do is to look at all the other tokens which are basically composed of keys and values. So you're going to compare the query to the key to quantify how similar your query is to that given key and take the corresponding value. So we'll see that in this example. So let's suppose you want to express teddy bear as in terms of everything else. What you're going to do is you're going to take the query teddy bear and you're going to compare that query with all the other keys to see which element is most similar and then weight the more similar ones and take their associated value. So that's a very high level uh idea of guess how these things are. Of course, we're going to see exactly how they work, but that's the general idea. Okay, cool. And speaking of quarantine and value, we will also see that one benefit of expressing things this way is that we can express doing this self attention computation across the whole sequence in a matrix format and GPUs love matrices. So it's really like made for the hardware that we have. Um and I guess what I mentioned here can be expressed in a form of soft max of the query and the key which is basically a way to get uh some kinds of weights of which values would be more important. So for instance if a value is more important you have bigger weights and another one will be less important you'll have a smaller weight and you basically uh multiply that by the value. So don't worry, we'll have a detailed example after. So if it still feels very, you know, high level fuzzy, don't worry. We'll have a a detailed uh walk through. And yes, so this is uh how it works. Okay, cool. Any questions on how self what self attention is? Yeah. Great, great question. So the question is uh what is value? What is key? I guess how do you get those? What do they mean? Um so first of all I just want to say that these quantities they're learned. So you are not fixing them. But from an interpretation standpoint, you can interpret that the key is there for you to figure out which one is most similar to the query and the value is the actual value that is associated with that with that element. So here you will have something like you want to express this in terms of all the values. So the weights in your weighted average will be basically the dot product between basically between the query and the key and the value will be the actual vector that you will use. But again these things are learned and there something I've not mentioned but uh you mentioned it correctly. So we're going to actually do projections to obtain these quantities and these projections are actually learned by the model. That's good. Okay, cool. Uh so with that uh we have uh 15 minutes right to u talk about the architecture. Um okay so at a very high level in order to make this self attention mechanism happen the authors propose an architecture that is composed of two parts an encoder which is on the left side and a decoder which is on the right side. So the application that they have is translation. So what will go through the encoder is the input text in your source language and what is going to go through the decoder is the target language that you're predicting. So the high level idea is you're going to compute meaningful embeddings from your input text by passing them through the encoder and you want that self attention mechanism to apply. Meaning you want to compute representations of each token as a function of others. And you do that by using a layer called the attention layer. So multihead attention layer but multi head is just doing this computation uh you know in different ways to just allow the model to learn different representations or different projections. But the idea here is you're going to input your input text and all the tokens in your input text are going to attend to one another. So for instance, a cute teddy bear is reading. You are going to compute the representation of all the tokens in this text basically as a function of others. And you're going to do that with the encoder. So here with the multi head attention uh and then you have a feed forward uh layer which is just to kind of let the model learn another kind of projection and what what you're going to obtain at the end of your encoding process is rich representations of the tokens from the input sentence. So far so good. But now your goal is to actually translate the input sentence. So what you're going to do is to start your translation with let's suppose the beginning of sentence token. It's your first token. And what you're going to do is use all the representations from your input sentence in order to figure out what to predict next. So this what I just said is the cross cross attention layer which is the the one that is the second this one which basically you know you see I'm not sure if you see the arrows but there are two arrows coming from the encoder one arrow coming from the decoder can anyone tell me what the error from the decoder stand like represents is it query key or I guess there is one over three 33% chance. Who wants to try is the key? Okay. H query. Okay. So the way to think about it is you're trying to ask yourself what are the words from the input that matter right so basically you want to know given your query what are the elements from the input that matter. So here this arrow is indeed the query because this is the thing that you want to figure out and the keys and values are actually coming from the encoder which are basically coming from the input sequence. Um, and then you have another attention layer, which is this one. And that one is trying to figure out what other tokens of the output sentence that you're decoding is going to be useful to predict the next token. So let's suppose you you know started decoding and you say uh which is in French to predict the next word you want to basically figure out what are the tokens translated so far that are going to be useful to predict the next word. So this is what this attention layer is about and it's called masked because it only looks at the tokens translated so far. It does not look at tokens that were not translated because of course they were not translated. So there's no way like on the right side of the of the token that you're trying to predict. Cool. Um so at a very high level you have this attention layer which is present in the encoder which is present in the decoder but it has several I guess use cases. So the attention layer here aims at computing embeddings from the input sentence as a function of themselves and then the ones from the decoder. So the first one, the mask self attention layer aims at expressing something as a function of everything that has been decoded so far. And the second one, the cross attention layer tries to express things as a function of what what has been seen in the inputs. So here given that you are having direct links to different tokens you don't have this sense of order right because in the in RNN you were basically expressing things you know one at a time so you had some sense of the word order but here you don't have it because it's like a direct link which is why you have position encodings which are there to inform on the position of the word in the sequence. So we're not going to dig into that today, but I just want to call that out. So at a very high level and we're going to see this in a detailed example. Uh what we do is in order to translate a sentence from source language to target language, we're first going to tokenize the text. So you know divided into arbitrary units. We're going to learn an embedding for these tokens. So this is what the input embedding is about. Then we're going to have to add some encoding with respect to the position. We're not going to talk about it today but just good to note. And then we go through the encoder. So the encoder tries to figure out how to express things as a function of other things from the inputs. So it does that in the multi head attention layer and then it goes through a fit for neuronet network which is just a way to just project uh the uh the vectors to just like have some more degrees of freedom to learn things. And then once you have these representations from the input, you're then going to start your translation. So you start with the BOS token. And what you're trying to do is figure out what the next word is. So you're going to see, okay, what are the words that were translated so far that are useful for a translation. So this is what the masked multi head attention layer does. And then you have another attention layer which is about expressing things as um as a function of what was in the input which is the cross attention layer over there. And then you have a feed for neural network uh to again give some more degrees of freedom. And at the end of the day, you have a vector that you then go through softmax and it just is a way for you to guess what is the next words. So you'll have a vector of size, vocabulary size, and you're going to use these values to determine what is your next word. Easy, right? Any questions on this? Yeah. All right, that's a great question. The question is, what does head mean? So, I guess I went too fast. I kind of ignored that part. But when you do the attention self attention computation, you basically make queries interact with keys and then take the corresponding value. But nothing prevents you from doing that several times. So the term head is given to the projection matrices that you use to obtain the query key and value. And when you have several heads, what you're doing is you're allowing your model to learn different projections. So it's basically an additional degree of freedom for your model to learn different associations between your vectors. So it's a great question. So typically it will be noted lowerase h number of heads and this is what this corresponds to. Does that answer your question? Cool. Very cool. Um, okay. We have a lot to discuss, but here I had a slide actually for this. So, this is the multi heads that you were mentioning. So, we're basically running the self attention computation several times in parallel again with different projection matrices that uh the model learns. So in case you have a computer vision background, it is similar to having multiple filters in your convolution. Uh so it's very it's the same idea but um guess different here. Yeah, great question. So question is are the projections different? So we're not typically not constraining things. We're just letting the model learn, but in practice it just tends to learn different ways of seeing the same thing. Um so yeah, typically there's no constraint. Of course you have, you know, papers that dig into, you know, how how about if you change this, but typically you don't have any constraint. Cool. Uh great. Okay. I will just mention one trick, another trick that uh transformer uh authors use. So it's called label smoothing. Who has heard of label smoothing here? Okay. So uh one new thing here is in NLP when you want to predict what comes next there's typically more than one way. like when you say what a great day, what a great lecture, what a great book, what a great there's always multiple uh choices like there's more than one way of filling that gap. So label smoothing is a technique that tries to intuitively address that and what it does is instead of saying predict this word 100% is this one there's no other words what it does is it says okay predict this word but there's a chance it's not this word and in practice what it does is it takes the one hot encoding and instead of saying it's a one 0 0 that you need to predict it says it's actually 1 minus epsilon and then epsilon over v minus one I guess um that you're trying to predict. So in practice, it's a a method that tends to make your model be more unsure like it would be less sure about this prediction because you always tell it okay uh try to predict this but actually it's possible it's not it's not the correct value but in practice the authors see that it tends to improve metrics like blue which is a kind of proxy metric for translation tasks. Yeah. >> So yeah, I think this method is like pretty general for NLP. So yeah, it's a good good one to know. And with that, I think there's about 20ish minutes left. So yeah, Shervin is going to uh walk you through an end to end example. And we have you the L you. So I guess here you can think of this as um something I guess some quantity. It's not defined. So some quantity uh and uh yeah the delta is like the like one hot if you want. Yeah something like this. Yeah, it can also be a constant. Yeah. Yeah. Uh so question is uh is there a relation with explore and exploit? It's an interesting one. Um so where would soft mask give it for free by the way? Right. But I guess it was still so I guess at the end of the day what you're trying to do is to compare your prediction with respect to the label. So I guess the question here is do you want to compare with one 0 0 or do you want to compare with something that is one not one 0 0. So I guess the softmax does not allow you to do that. Exactly. Yes. So I'm not sure if this was super clear, but this is actually the label. So what we're trying to predict is not one 0 0, but we change the label in a way that makes the model uh I guess predict something as less sure I guess. Cool. Thanks. And with that, yeah, sure. Okay, great. Thank you, Ashin. And uh yes, so we saw basically how the transformer worked and now we're going to piece it all together with one specific example. Um okay great so let's take our favorite example again so a cute tur is reading and then we'll go um like all together through each step um so first we start with tokenization um so as we said we we can use any uh arbitrary decomposition to decompose this into tokens um and then as someone mentioned you know you need to have some way to indicate like the start and the end of a sequence. So typically this is done with the BOS and EOS tokens. So you add them. Okay. So now let's focus on the composition of each token representation. So you have its embedding that is learned and then as a mentioned in order to have an idea of what is the position of the words or the token I should say as part of the sequence you have some added information that is in the form of a position embedded and here the original paper uses the convention of some signs and cosiness that it adds additively to the representation. So it's like a elementwise addition. Okay, great. So now you have a position aware embedding for your token and you repeat that for each of your tokens. >> Okay, so now you can see all of these embeddings in the format of a matrix which is of size D model which is the size of your embeddings and then the other dimension is the length of the sequence. Um so typically n so all makes sense so far. Any questions on the inputs? Okay, great. So now we will send this representation through the encoder. Okay, so as I've shin said you have this concept of self attention and the way you perform self attention is that you take this input and project it on three spaces. So you project it to the space WQ, you get queries. You project the same embeddings in the space W K, you get keys. And you do the same for values. You get your values. And then WQ, W K, and WV are learned by the model. They're like basically projection matrices. So far so good. Okay. So now with all of that in mind you can apply the formula that Ashin mentioned that is the self attention formula which is soft max of q krpose over square root of dk \* v uh which gives you another matrix out of all of these. Now let's pause for a second and look at how this computation is done in practice and you know what every step means. So let's look at Q. You know when you compute Q that basically you project your embeddings into that space. What do you obtain? You obtain a matrix where each row represents a given query. When you say krpose, it's basically the same kind of matrix but transposed where each column represents the key representation of each token. Now let's mix them together with the matrix uh multiplication. So when you multiply each of them, you see that each row represents the projection of the query over each key such that when you take the like matrix multiplication and get the soft max of all of this, you get a probability distribution of the projection of the query over keys for each query. Like each line will have this And yeah, I don't know if anyone asked the question regarding you know why do we scale by square root of dq dk. So it could be dq as well because matrix multiplication like the dot product here enforces the fact that dq equals dk and basically what you see is that this dot products as the dimension of key and queries grows it will tend to grow as well. So you want to normalize uh this dot product and this is why you divide by square root of of the dimension of of keys. Okay, great. And then now you have your soft max of all of this and then you multiply with the matrix V and this is what I've seen explained as having the query uh projected on the space of keys and then multiplied by the corresponding value. So the value is the representation of the corresponding key that we project on. So you end up with a weight sum of values for each query. Okay, great. Does that make sense so far? Okay, awesome. And someone asked, you know, what is the multi head stuff? So you are right. So it's not just single one one time that it's done. It's actually done each times and what you obtain is like all of that is done in parallel and at the end you obtain each such matrices and you concatenate them with respect to the columns and at the end of this you have another projection matrix that you call WO that will project all of these back to the original dimension of embeddings. So it's a way for a network to basically have a dimension invariant way to bless you to go from uh like the the original dimension back to the original one. Any questions? Yep. So the question is regarding age. Is it possible to get the same result each time? I mean, if you concatenate the same same thing, you know, will it be helpful? Did I get the question right? So, what makes it different? So, it's the magic of gradient descent. So, the network has an objective function at the end. It has degrees of freedom. Its incentive is to build the representation that would be helpful to learn the next word. So, it doesn't have an incentive to copy the same thing or do the same mechanism. And this is why in practice you see the model converge towards building different representations that it can then concatenate and then project into something useful. So what what makes it such that you don't have the same thing nothing like you don't have any constraints but the nature of the learning that you let the model have makes it do so in practice. Any other questions? Yeah, and that is a great question. I mean it's um like typically yeah gradient descent does wonders. Okay, great. So now that we have gone through the self attention layer um you have another component that is the FFM and I think there was a question just here regarding how to choose the dimension of the hidden layer with respect to the input and output. So when Ashin mentioned word tovec typically you have a smaller dimension than the input and output but here actually the hidden layer is of a bigger dimension than input and output and the rational for that is that you want to have enough degrees of freedom for the model to learn useful representations. So it's a way to complexify the features that you learn. Um and yeah just in okay great and you don't have just one encoder module you have actually n of them big n uh in the original paper and at the end of all of this you have an encoded uh context aware set of embeddings and then each of these set of encoded embeddings will be those that will be fed to the n decoders. So you have like a stacked um like stacked like succession of n encoders. You have a stacked succession of n decoders and the last representation of the encoder is what you will feed to the cross attention of each decoder. Um so yeah we're going to see that more in detail. So how do we even start the decoding process? So you start with the BOS token basically saying to the model you know hey we need to predict the next word uh you know let's start. So what happens to the BOS token at the very beginning? So you feed it to the decoder and then similarly as before for the encoder you have a self attention layer and as I've mentioned the self attention layer um is koso. So the attention will be done on the same token and the tokens that precede it. So on on this first Bos token you don't see a difference because it will just attend to itself. But when you have uh like other tokens that you want to decode, you will have this difference in where you attend with respect to the decoder. Okay, great. goes through the self attention layer and then you have what I mentioned to be the um cross attention that takes as keys and values these encoded embeddings as inputs and then the queries are those of the that come out of the self attention layer. Okay, great. And then once you do this cross attention, you have just like in the encoder an FFN component that uh makes the representation richer. Was there a question there? No. Um and then at the very end, so you do that all of that end times and at the very end of the decoding process, you have a linear projection and a soft max layer to turn um the prediction of the next word into a probability distribution over the vocabulary. Okay, great. So we saw how to do that for the next word here. And uh basically you do that again and again. So you have found your next token and then uh which is like a one hot one hot basically um encoding of what you want and then you take that embedding and then put it back in the decoder and continue this process. And when do you stop? It's a question for you all. When you hit the EOS token. Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. Okay. rates. And with this process, it's basically how the authors of this original uh like landmark paper did machine translation. So this is typically the use case that was presented. Um yeah, any questions? Okay, awesome. And with that, thank you for your attention. [Applause]
