Cool. Hello everyone and uh welcome to lecture 3 of CME 295. Um so today is a very exciting day because we're going to finally introduce large language models. Uh but I guess before we go into that I'm just going to start traditionally with uh some announcements. Um so some of you wanted to have the slides before the class. So just a heads up that in case you want to use the slides to do some annotations uh they're on the website right now. So feel free to get them and uh with Shervin we'll try to just on a regular basis every Thursday evening have them published on the website so that you can download them and annotate. Cool. So with that, let's start. And as usual, we're going to recap uh last week's episodes. So if you remember, you know, lecture one and lecture two were all about introducing the concept of self attention and linking them to the construct of the transformer. And what we did last lecture was look at all the types of models that there are out there and how they were all based on the transformer. So there are three categories, three main categories of models. So the first one that we saw was encoder decoder model which basically relies on the transformer. It has the encoder of the transformer, the decoder of the transformer and typically the tasks there are input text. So text in text out. So we saw that one example was T5 and all the variations. The second type of model is where we remove the decoder from the trans transformer and we obtain an encoder only model. So uh we went uh deeper into BERT which is the typical encoder only model and uh I guess we also saw that what BERT has is this nice property that it's encoded embeddings are very meaningful and expressive of the inputs and so yeah we saw like the example of classification sentiment extraction. So what we did was in particular um take into consideration the encoded embedding of the CLS token. So uh I guess in real life BERT is used to encode documents to encode sentences and we're going to see later in the class how these models are useful. And then last but not least, we have the third category of models which is decoder only. So we only keep the decoder part of the transformer. And so here we also do a little bit of a of a modification. So we remove the cross attention because we don't need it anymore. We don't have an encoder. And these kinds of models are text in text out. And so GPT is a very good example of such models and actually most models these days they're only like they are decoder only. So these are the three main kinds of models that you can see out there. So far so good for everyone. Cool. So with that I'm going to introduce the term LLM. So, LLM stands for large language model. So, what is a large language model? So, first of all, a large language model is a language model. So, a language model is a model that assigns probability to sequences of tokens. So, in this case, our model always predicts the probability of the next token. So, it's in that sense a language model. But also a large language model is large. So why is it large? So we're going to see that these models they are actually scaled up in terms of size. So first of all in terms of model size. So these days it's not uncommon to see models on the order of hundreds of billions of parameters. But yeah, typically when we say LLM, we say at least on the order of a billion. These models, they've also been trained on a huge amount of data. And here by amount of data, we quantify that by the number of tokens that they were pre-trained with. And this is on the order of magnitude of hundreds of billions of tokens or even trillions of tokens. So I think the biggest one biggest ones are like on the tens of trillions of tokens. So it's like huge training sets and they're also large because they need a lot of compute. So typically you need a bunch of GPUs to make them work. Although these days there's been a lot of um optimizations to have them work on uh consumerbased GPUs. So we're going to see that later. But an LLM is large according to these categories. So another thing that I want to point out is that all these terminologies they're relatively new. So um I remember in 2018 19 there was nothing like there was no real definition of an LM. I think no one actually talked about LLMs in the beginning maybe people talked about LLMs. They included BERT, but BERT is an encoder only model that does not produce text. So with the current definition of an LLM, which right now has been pretty well established, BERT would not be an LLM because it doesn't produce text. So here we only consider language models that do textto text that are very large in size in terms of amount of data they have been trained on and in terms of compute. Cool. And as we saw before these models are decoder only. So here what we do is we remove the encoder. We only keep the masked self attention, the feed forward neuronet network and then the you know addition and normalization. So we only keep this and this is the backbone of LMS and uh so I mentioned you know GPT is a kind of a good example but it's not just that you have plenty of other models. So you may have heard of Llama from Meta, Gemma from Google, uh Deepseek, Mistro Quen, so on like the the list is long. I would say roughly I mean more than 90% of like modern day LLMs, they're all decoder only. So I think that's uh something to keep in mind. Cool. Um okay so now you know how LLMs are made of but there is something else that people these days also introduced to these models and we're going to see that in a bit so I mentioned that these models are huge in size again typically hundreds of billions of parameters so it takes a lot of compute to just compute one inference or also to train these models. But you may wonder, do you really need to have all these parameters be activated during a forward pass to make a simple prediction? So I'm going to u like have a little metaphor. So let's suppose you enter in a room and in the room there is a mathematician, a physicist, a chemist and a historian. So you come in this class there's a bunch of people who are expert in what they do. And you have a question, you have a math question. That's a question I have for you is who would you ask your question? Would you ask the mathematician? Would you ask the chemist? Would you ask everyone? Well, right now we ask everyone. We ask all parameters of the model to be involved in the computation of uh you know the generation. And so the idea here is given an input maybe it's not necessary to ask everyone to be involved in the computation. So the idea is let's actually just have a subset of the model be involved in the computation of the next token. So I'm just introducing this idea of experts. So let's suppose we're introducing uh the following notation. So let's suppose we have n experts. So think of it as your mathematician, your chemist, historian, like whatever. So these are your experts and the idea is given an input X, you're going to ask yourself who should be involved in the generation of the output. So you're going to have let's say another network. We're we're going to call it G like gate but it's also sometimes called router. So let's suppose we have some gate that tells us which expert should be involved in the inference. So if we have that so let's suppose here the gate tells us okay so actually expert number two is well suited to answer your question. So here the idea is that the input is just going to flow into that expert but not the other experts. So this has a name. It's called mixture of experts. So it's denoted. Everyone talks about so these are mixture of experts. And so the formula that you will see a lot is this one. So the output y which is denoted yhat is the sum of the expert output weighted by some quantity which is the output of the gate which tells you how important the output of each expert is. Yeah, great question. So question is how do you train G? How do you train E? So typically you train them jointly. So we're going to see that maybe in a yeah a little later, but you can think of it as you know just training as usual. You do your forward pass, you compute the last and you back prop. And it's actually an interesting question because there is some challenges that come with training emois that we're going to see in a second. Yep. Uh question is uh what are these E what is the architecture of these E? So let's suppose right now that they're just some network. We're not specifying them for now but we're going to see this in a second. Let's suppose for now it's like some network. Cool. Okay, so I told you that you know what if we don't activate everyone? What if we activate a subset? But this formula actually um I guess assumes that we're actually considering all expert outputs. So I just want to distinguish two kinds of. So there's one kind that is called a dense. So dense MO actually does not have any constraints on the number of experts that are involved. So these weights they can be anywhere between zero and one. So think of them as a probability distribution but it's just going to put more weight towards some experts compared to others. So back back to the example that I had. So let's suppose I have a math question. So I'm going to ask the mathematician, the chemist, the historian. So I'm probably going to add a higher weight to what the mathematician says compared to let's say the historian. So this is the idea. But then the interesting thing is when we constrain the number of experts that are activated because here as we mentioned previously what we're interested in is to not involve everyone is to make some savings in the amount of compute that we do. So there's a second kind of MOE that's called the sparse MOE and what it does is it only selects the quoteunquote top K experts. So K can be equal to one. So one expert or even two. So it's a hyperparameter that you choose. And so here the expression of the output becomes the sum over all the chosen experts of uh g of x time e of x. So far so good. Cool. Uh and of course there's a lot more to it. So in case you are interested in learning more uh feel free to go into the resources that are at the bottom of the slide. Um so one thing that I will say is that we have a unit of measure of the amount of compute that these models produce for each uh each pass. So you will see the term flops. So have you have you seen the term flops out there? No not really. So it stands for floating point operations. So it quantifies how many operations like think of it as like additions, multiplications are involved in a forward pass let's say and it basically quantifies how compute heavy is your task. So typically what we say is when we go through a sparse MO as opposed to a dense MOE we have a lower amount of flops. So this is the unit of measure that you will see. But back to your question. So what are these experts? So if you remember I mean 10 minutes ago we said that LLMs they are decoder only models. So I have a question for you. Let's suppose we wanted to put some in our LLM. Where would would we put it? So here I guess we have three choices. We have uh the mass self attention layer. We have the feed for neural network and then we have like this normalization. So question for you I guess where would you put this? I guess where do you think is I guess the most complex part of the network? Where is there a lot of operations feed forward? Yes. Yeah. Great great answer. So uh it's indeed the feed forward neuron network and the reason for that is I think Shervin mentioned it I think in lecture one. So if you remember the feed for neural network is a network such that you have the input which is your you know dd dimensional input vector and then you have uh this being projected into let's say dfff dimensional space and then it goes back to the dd dimensional um I guess uh space. So the DFF is typically larger than your dimension of I guess the input. When I say input is here. So it's typically larger. So the amount of parameters that you have in that feed for null network is something on the order of magnitude of D model time D FFF time 2 plus some bias. So it's basically your order of magnitude and the attention layer if you think about if you remember it's basically composed of the projection matrices. What is the dimension of the projection matrices? So it's the model times the dimension of keys, the dimension of queries, the dimension of values. And this dimension is typically much lower. So think of it of hundreds. So your D model is typically O of 100, O of a,000 and then the projection here the DFF is O of a,000 or of 10,000. Cool. So is everyone now convinced that this is a good way good place to put the mixture of experts? Yeah. Cool. So this is actually how it's done. So in modern day day LLMs this idea of not involving everyone in the computation of the next token prediction is such that you would put put the mixture of experts where the FFN is which is basically here and typically you would have a sparse mixture of experts meaning that so back to your question so these experts are feed for neural network. So you would you would have several networks that you can train but you would only activate one. So typically K would be equal to one. It can be also equal to two but it would only be a subset. So that's my point. Um and this routing would be done at the token level. So if you remember you know the decoder it basically takes uh something as input. So you know a bunch of tokens and here what I'm saying is that each token will be processed by an expert that may be different from the other token. So the router router here would take the representation of the token as input and figure out which expert should be best for this token to flow towards. Does this idea make sense? So I have a little um illustration later on that hopefully will help. So now back to your question about how you train this model like do you train the router separately do you train the expert separately. So one challenge that people have is when they train these based models to make sure that all experts are I guess having a weight are being used because it's very possible that you train your model and that somehow only I don't know one or two experts always get activated and the other one they always are inactive. They're never involved in the computation. So this problem is called routing collapse. So why is it called routing collapse? Is because a router always chooses some experts but not others. So this is a challenge and the way people try to mitigate this challenge is by changing the loss function and adding it some extra term which is written here. So it's basically some hyperparameter alpha times the number of experts times the sum of quantities that depend on whether or not tokens went to a certain expert I and then summed over all experts. So it's not super important that you completely understand exactly how that formula works. The only thing that I think you should take away from this slide is that this extra loss allows these quantities to converge more towards uniform distributions. So what are these quantities just as a reminder? So f of I is the fraction of tokens that are routed to expert I and P of I is the average routing probability for expert I. So when I say that, you know, all experts should be used kind of the same, what I'm saying is I want this probability to be kind of uniform across experts. Yeah. Yeah. So the question is uh I guess uh when do you compute this quantities? So yeah like you can think of it as like you know regular training uh process like you know you do some like mini batch you kind of like go go go through that through like the the model and then you compute all these quantities and then what you do is you do your um your back propagation based on that and I guess what I want you to remember is that this incentivizes the probability um I guess the the choice of the router to be more uniform across experts which is something that mitigates this routing collapse phenomena. Yeah. >> Yeah. So the question is can we use dropout? Of course you can always like bundle that with some other techniques. So people have just kind of found this to be very helpful. So speaking of other techniques, there is something that I've not talked about which is very similar to the dropout um idea. So it's called noisy gating. Noisy gating is basically uh you have your your predictions from the gates but then you add some noise to it. So basically it you know by pure chance it just allows other experts to be involved in the computation. So it's also some other technique. There's a bunch of techniques but yeah dropout is uh indeed quite useful for like things like overfeeding and the idea can be reused in in different settings. Yep. Yep. So the question is how can you so you mean differentiable? So here I guess how do you take the derivative is that your your question? Uh how is that? So can you explain a bit more what your concern is? >> Mhm. So I guess uh to this question um so the average routing probability so that one is a function of the gate output right that's one pi right so I guess your question is for fi for fi okay I don't have a good answer on top of my head but I think like people have some techniques and these days you know you just don't even have to do this by hand. You have uh like the built-in thing. Um so maybe I can follow up with you for fi, but for P of I, do you see that this one is is quite clean? It's just the average of uh the probabilities from the gates. Uh yeah. So basically the probability the output probability from the the gate you can think of it as just the vector being projected on a space of n where n corresponds to your number of experts and then it's gone through softmax. So your output is basically summing up to one and each of these dimensions they represent the value corresponding to what expert I would be I guess used for like for instance the first dimension would be for expert one second dimension for expert two and so on. So you just take the average of this and like this one you can express it from you know all the parameters. So I think you should be you should be fine with that one. Yeah. So the question is if we increase the number of moes does it increase the number of model parameters. So it's a great question. So it's actually actually one of the ideas behind MO based models which is that you can scale the model without having to incur the cost of having significantly more compute at inference time. So you can increase so people say capacity can increase your the capacity of your model but you will still keep some I guess like control the amount of active parameters and active parameters are the parameters that are that are used for a forward pass. So yeah people just kind of use that. So yeah it will just increase the number of parameters. So that's why you see some MO based models that are even bigger than the ones that we kind of had like on the order of hundreds of billions. We even have on the order of trillions of parameters. So for instance here uh one reading I I recommend is switch transformer which scaled up to 1 something trillion parameters. So yes, definitely more uh but that being said, so if you read the paper, you will also see that these models there are more what they call sample efficient. So they take less time to be as good as what the model would have been with a lower number of parameters. So if you look at like if you draw the you know training training curve as a function of like the training time you see that these models they're typically more sample efficient. Sorry. >> Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. Everything here is a trade-off. Everything here is a trade-off. >> Yeah. Cool. Yeah. Um, so the question is each attention head will have a number of experts. So it's actually regardless of the attention heads. So the attention heads are you can think of them as being like independent you know something else and the number of experts is independent of that. Does that make sense? Yeah. Right. Right. All right. Yeah. The question is whether every block will have a number of extra. The answer is yes. And typically those weights are not shared. So typically you So actually we're going to see an example. Um it can very well be that layer one there is the expert number I don't know three that was chosen but layer two there is like expert number one. And you know it's it's like it's all free. It's trainable. So the so the question is we will decide where to uh where expert will go to. So all of that is decided by the gates which is this quantity. Everything is uh decided by the gates which has trainable weights. So you can think of this as just some projection from the input x to an n dimensional space where n is the number of experts. Uh so question is at what point during the inference is it decided? So um let's suppose we're at inference time. I'm going to walk you through how it works. So you have your x. So you have this you know attention mechanism. So it interacts with all tokens from the past given that it's decoder only. So it's like the masked and it goes here and at the beginning of the fit for neural network block the token is of course contextual. So it has the information from like these other tokens because it's attended. And what it does is it goes here. So X first goes into G. G computes uh this you know probability distribution over all experts and given here that we are in a sparse MOE setting we will only choose the top K. So let's suppose it's the top one just the highest uh probability um and you will you will know which expert this one will be and so as a result of that you will only compute the the output value of the expert that the input was chosen. Mhm. So can you elaborate on that actually? Yeah. At what point exactly? So it's after the self attention layer. Yeah. Uh so the question is do we have different classification for different heads? No. So there's only one router. So uh I think I I understand your question. So your question is what do you do given that you have different attention computations going on in parallel with the heads. So if you remember the attention layer has these different heads but at the end of it what it does is it concatenates all the results from each of these heads and then projects it once again in the D model space. Yep. Yep. Yep. Yes. So the question is do we have different G's? So the only thing I can tell you is that the G is just layer specific. It's layer specific. It's trainable. So it's basically going to learn how to process all these uh inputs. So the G the only thing I can tell you for for your question is is going to be layer specific. So the G is going to be one G for let's say the first layer, another G for the second layer and so on. And that one is going to be trained. Cool. Great. Looking at the time. Do we have any other questions here? We're good. Perfect. So now I just wanted to show you a cool thing that um I believe uh the Mistral uh team was showing in one of their papers. So what they were showing here was for a given piece of text to show in which expert each token was routed. So as we noted before um so experts are different from one layer to another. So I believe here it's yeah for layer zero so it's like for one given layer and we do see that you know roughly these tokens I guess they leverage like a uniform amount of experts more or less. What you would not want to see is to have every token be the same color, but luckily it is not. But yeah, so that's one cool way of just representing how the routing is done is to just have your input text and just represent where each token in which expert each token went. Cool. Okay. So what we just saw was one way that modern day LMS change their architecture to incorporate the fact that we may want to scale the model but not increase the computation complexity for one forward pass and we saw that with so you will see a lot of MOE based LLM out there and now what we will is knowing that we have an LLM, we're going to focus on don't worry uh we're going to focus on how a response is being generated. So remember when I told you that you know these uh modern day LLMs what they do is they take some text in and they have some text out. So it's typically this task of next token prediction. So you have a token in so let's say beginning of sentence you go through your llm and it just uh generates the next word or the next token so a and then you take a and it goes to teddy and then teddy bear is etc etc but so far we have never really dug into exactly how we chose the next token. So what we're going to do right now is to see exactly how we're generating the next token. So as you know here our LM is just a decoder only architecture. So here what you have is a decoder with your input here and then your output there. So let's suppose for a second that we know everything that's happening in the middle and we're just obtaining output probabilities that are going to look a little bit like this. So given a token or some sequence of token as inputs, you have an output probability distribution that represents what the model thinks is the likelihood that there will be a next token let's say that is equal to a to airplane to fluffy etc. So this is what you have. So now my question to you is if we told you we have some sequence as inputs and we want to choose the next token and if I told you that our model is giving out actually a probability distribution. I guess how would you choose the next token based on this? Sorry. Great. The token with maximum probability there. Okay. Great. So yeah, the first idea, let's just take the token with highest probability. So, so it's a very natural approach, but I'm not sure if you've been using things like chat GPT or Gemini. Every time you ask something, it always responds it responds something that is slightly different, right? So if you always choose the token with the highest probability given that the computation here we're going to see is all deterministic what that means is you're always going to generate the same thing regardless of uh I guess with the same input right so that's one one limitation so it's not very like diverse the second problem is if you choose the highest probability token on a I guess iterative basis. You're locally optimal, but you're not necessarily globally optimal. So what does that mean? So I guess if you think about it, our objective is for us to produce a sequence, an output sequence of tokens that is, I guess, of a high probability. But the problem is if you always choose the highest probability token, you will not necessarily obtain the highest probability sequence. Are you convinced of this statement by the way? So let me give you an example. So let's suppose you have the next token where one token is8 the other one is 7 and then you choose to go with the 08. No actually it's not 7 because it has to sum to one. So let's say 02. So let's suppose if you go ahead with the sequence that that starts with the 08. Let's suppose all other token probabilities are very low. Basically you will have an output sequence that will have a lower probability than let's say the other path which would let's suppose have higher probability predictions in the later steps. Right? So we're going to see this in a second, but this is the idea. So if you choose the highest predicted probability, it's a good first idea, but it's locally optimal, but not necessarily globally optimal. And this is the reason why we have a a second method that is about keeping track of the K most probable path. So I'm not sure if you've heard of beam search. So that's what beam search does. So here K is sometimes called the beam size or the beam width. So if you hear these terms, these are just names that are given to the number of path that we keep track of. And so this works as follows. So let's suppose we start our generation with the beginning of sentence token. we want to figure out what the next token is. So let's suppose we have uh here in this example very basic example like three tokens and let's suppose the two highest probable tokens are a and z. So if we have k equal to two what we're going to do is to keep track of these two branches. So that's the first iteration. The second iteration is we're going to look at all the probabilities of next token prediction for these two tokens and we're going to always save the two most probable path and here for instance let's suppose if it's like the and then fluffy and then a and cute. So back to what I was saying later uh earlier. So what I was saying was here if you were choosing the path that went along the highest probability token path like the the it's very much possible that the highest probability token after the would be a much lower probability than the one after a. And so this is what beam search tries to do. tries to have a more globally optimal solution. So let's suppose we continue that and then at the end of the day we obtain uh I guess a number of uh potential I guess choices uh and the k potential choices and then we we pick the one that is the kind of highest likely the sequence with the highest probability. So people typically what they do is they take the sum of the logarithm of the probabilities of the token. So they they what they say is they say uh okay so the log probability of the sequence is the sum of the log probability of each next token prediction. So it's the log probability of a uh knowing bos and and then cute knowing boss and a and so on and so forth. But I just want to point out one limitation of this approach which is that the more you generate tokens the lower your I guess uh end sequence probability will be because if you think about it you know all these probabilities they're between zero and one. So think of it like in the kind of multiplied sense. So let's suppose you have the probability of the whole sequence which is just a multiplication of the probability of the next token. The more you add probabilities be below like less than one, the more this quantity will I guess go towards zero. So I guess uh this method as is will prioritize sequences that are shorter and so for that reason beam search has some uh additional term that basically counteracts that that effect. So something on the order of like one over number of tokens to the power of something. So in practice there's some uh technique to make sure that you know things kind of work relatively well. But okay let's suppose we figure out all these things. Uh the problem is that we need to keep track of this most probable path. We need to do all this uh kind of uh saving etc. And it just like requires a lot of computation. And the other thing is we're still interested in the most probable path which basically will lead to a sequence that is you know very that the model thinks is very likely but sometimes what you want is for your output to be more diverse or more creative. So that's why beam search is actually not something that people typically use. People use beam search for things like machine translation where you actually need to have something that is close to uh something being very likely but actually people use a third method and this method is called also the sampling method. So I told you we have a probability distribution over tokens regarding what the next token should be. And so what people do is they just sample the next token using that probability distribution. Does this make sense? So in this example, uh fluffy, gentle, kind, and let's say smart will have a higher probability of being drawn as opposed to let's say airplane and wear that have a lower probability of occurring. nonzero probability but they have a probability of occurring. Cool. Any questions so far? Yep. Right. Uh so the question is it's not for training, it's for inference. Yes. Correct. So this is the you can think of it as response generation. So let's suppose you have your model that is trained. What you want is to generate an output. So what would you do? Yeah. So I guess just to complete my answer. So during training what you would do is care about the output probabilities and then compare them with the actual label uh which is most of the time like a hard label. Uh and yeah this is what you would compare. So this one is let's suppose you have an LLM that is trained. How would you generate a response? Cool. Everyone good? Yeah. Yep. Yeah. So question is how do you do sampling in this situation? So actually my next slides but I just want to make sure everyone was uh on the same page regarding just the intuition. So highest probability is called greedy decoding is probably not something that we want. Beam search is a little bit better. It's more something that is globally optimal. It's not globally optimal, but more towards that. So, it's better, but it lacks diversity. It lacks creativity, which is why what we want to do is to actually sample each token. Um, and I guess we have a few methods that um also restrict the kinds of tokens that we want to sample from. because I mentioned you know these very low probability tokens they can still I theoretically be sampled but it's not necessarily something that we want. So what people do is they typically restrict the highest probability tokens and only sample from them. So you may have heard of this term top K sampling. Who has heard of this term? Yeah, a little bit. Okay. So, what you do is you select the top highest probable K. So, the top K highest probable tokens and you sample from them. So, let's suppose if K is equal to four, you take the highest four highest probable and then you just sample with them. And there's something else that is quite similar in idea which is called top P. So top P is that you limit yourself to the top to the highest probable tokens such that their cumulative probability is more than a threshold P. So again it will do the same thing. It will select the highest probable um tokens. But then there is a part that I still left out. which is how do you obtain these probabilities to start with. So if you remember here I had mentioned that we just assume we have the probabilities we just have them and we want to choose what the next token is. But now the question that I'm asking is now that we know what we will do with these probabilities. I guess one question is how do you obtain these probabilities to start with? So if you remember these transformerbased architecture basically computes an encoded representation of the input. And what you have is some final layers at the very top of the figure which aims at projecting the vector into the space of the vocabulary because what you want to do is to have a probability number for how probable it is for you to sample a given token. Right? So here what you would do is at the very top of the of the architecture have your uh input which is your encoded embedding of the token go through a linear layer which basically projects your dmodel vector into a space of dimension size of v. And of course what you want is probability. So you would have a softmax layer which basically converts everything to probabilities such that everything sums to one and in order to compute the probabilities this is the formula that you would use which is the softmax layer. So there is a a hyperparameter that is quite important that I want to talk to you about which is the temperature T. And so this is where it uh pops up. So you have the probability of the next token being a given word which is equal to the exponential of the input respect to that given word over temperature. And then you normalize that by the sum of all the other exponential of the quantity over t. And now what we're going to see is what that t is used for or what that t actually uh does in practice. So before we go into that just one question has anyone heard about temperatures when it comes to response generation? Yeah. Cool. So hopefully that will kind of give you a better idea of how the temperature kind of influences your output predictions. So I guess the question that I want to ask you is what would be the impact of having a low temperature versus a high temperature? So low temperature would correspond to diverse. Why? Yeah. Yeah. Has anyone So we'll come to that in a second. So yeah, do you have a a lower temperature? Increase in temperature. So I guess back to your um the explanation about like uh I guess lowering the temperature and what impact it will do to the So I guess like do you have a suggested uh response to that? I guess like yellow temperature. Let's suppose you have a lower temperature. What happens? Mhm. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So I guess um so the long story short is low temperature will create a spiky distribution and then high temperature will create a uniform distribution. But I guess so I think you had the right like intuition. Um I'm going to maybe write this in more mathematical terms. So whoops. Okay. Um let's suppose you have your probability which is uh you know the exponential of x i / t over the sum of exponential of xj / t. So just mathematically you can actually prove uh what is happening here. So let's suppose you have the index of the highest x i So let's call that K. So let's suppose what I do is I will factor by this uh quantity. So actually here I don't have space. So let's do here. So it will be a e of k temperature and then here you have the sum of over all j of exponential of x j over t minus x k / t. So what I did is I just multiplied the numerator and the denominator by exponential of x k / t. So I multiplied numerator and denominator and of course they cancel out. But then what I have here is xy - x k / t and here xj - ak over t. So when I is equal to k, this term is zero, right? is exactly zero regardless of the temperature. And here xj minus a x k is always negative or zero. Right? So here if I is equal to k you have zero over t. So here it's one and then you have 1 + I guess some quantity so j - x k / t which is going to be negative so t going to zero so that one will be I guess going to let's say minus infinity so exponential of minus infinity is zero. So what you will end up with is something where for i equal to k you will have a nonzero probability but then for i not equal to k you will have zero over something that is not equal to zero which is zero. So just mathematically if you factor by exponential of x k / t where k is the index of the highest value uh I guess the highest logit or the highest activation vector can actually show that for a small temperature only the highest so the index of the I guess highest um value will be the one that will be uh I guess highest probable with a spike there and then when you have a high temperature basically it will look like a uniform distribution because all this all these quantities so when t tends to plus infinity this tends to zero so exponential of zero is just e sorry not uh one >> it's one so it's one over the number of J so it's one so just a uniform distribution across all the tokens of your vocabulary yeah um so the question is how can I interpret a small Mhm. So the question is can I interpret that as a gausian? I think so it's kind of tough because gausian you have like some continuous quantity as in the x-axis. So here you have you know you have tokens so it's kind of discrete and it's not like uh something that you can order. So just probably interpret that as small temperature is very spiky. So you will really have a given set of tokens that are the highest probable that will appear more. And if you have a high temperature then basically tokens even the ones that were not uh there to be kind of the highest probable will actually have an adjusted probability that that would be higher. Yes. So you can think of it as like some kind of scaling in that sense. So long story short, what I want to tell you is if you have a small temperature, it will encourage the next token to be geared towards being the highest probable token. And then if if you have a high temperature, I guess the distribution of probabilities will be kind of closer to a uniform if you really increase that temperature by a lot. So your output will be more creative. You'll have tokens that um you would have not drawn that would be drawn. And so what that means in practice if you're I don't know if you're with your favorite LLM and let's suppose you want to uh I don't know write something very creative. So which one would you use? Would you use a low temperature or high temperature? High temperature. Yes. So if you want something that's more deterministic, more I guess closer to uh something that is very um I guess what you think would be high quality, you will use more of a lower uh temperature. So one note here is that if you have a strictly positive temperature, every time you run your model over an input, you will obtain a different output. Right. So something I want to point out is nothing in the transformer architecture is probabilistic. Everything is deterministic. The only thing that is not deterministic is how you sample the next token. It's the only thing that is not deterministic. So what will you do to have like a deterministic output? we have t equal to zero. t equal to zero, you know for sure that your output will be just one thing and nothing else. Well, that's what is kind of a theoretical uh property. But in practice, you have some stuff that is happening in the computation that introduces some nondeterministic operations. So it's very much more advanced than the scope of this class. Much more advanced of the scope of this class. I just want to call out that in practice t equal to zero may lead to different results because of this um kind of practical piece. So what I recommend so there's a suggested reading in case you're completely optional. So there's a very recent article around defeating nondeterminism in LM inference. So I recommend that you read it in case you're interested. So the high level idea is our GPUs, our hardware when they reduce some of these operations, sometimes they are reducing numbers that are on really different scales. So the order at which these operations are happening is actually quite important. So the idea is if these operations they happen in different order it may lead to different results. Even if in theory it should be exactly the same in practice it may not be the same. And this article actually does a great job at just explaining the intuition. So yeah just if you're interested completely optional. Cool. Uh I know I'm kind of late. So I guess um last thing that I want to say is let's suppose what you want to do is to generate an output in a very specific format. Let's suppose JSON JSON format. So I guess a very naive approach would be to tell your LLM well please generate this in let's say JSON and then it produces something and then you kind of uh try to see if it's a valid JSON. If it's not you repeat you just tell it to generate again until it does something well. So that's the first naive approach. Well there's a second approach that is called guided decoding. And what that does is during the generation process, it filters out what it calls invalid next tokens. So here uh let's suppose I want to generate this JSON. I know for sure that my first token must be uh something that opens the you know the I forgot what the English word was for this but you know it just opens the the brackets. Yeah, open the brackets. So you can only have this and then you can only have the property name it's and so on and so forth and sometimes you can have more than one permitted next token in which case you would go back to our you know next token strategy. Yeah. So the question is how do you restrict uh the the other tokens? There's a bunch of papers that go into that. We will not cover this, but I can give you some pointers. Uh just type finite state machine FSM uh context grammar. So there's a bunch of papers that do that. We will not cover that here. Cool. And I think with that we will uh go to the second part uh with Shervin. Great. Thank you. So uh now together we're going to look at uh different prompting strategies. So now that we know how responses are generated, we're going to see how to get uh responses and how to get great responses. So let's go back to our favorite example about our cute teddy bear. Uh so just I want to introduce one piece of vocabulary. So when you have some kind of input uh you have the length of your inputs measured in number of tokens uh and you will see in the literature that it can have different names. So you can uh see it called context length, context size, window size and I think the latest tools like if you code on you know cursor or any other uh code assisted tool I think they call it a more context length but like all these terms are uh equivalent and they know the same thing. Okay. So now I want to take some time to discuss like what can be some orders of magnitude here. So uh like modern day LLMs they tend to be in the order of magnitude of tens of thousands hundreds of thousands or millions of input tokens as inputs. So this is the kind of input it can take. So sometimes you hear some new LLM boast some number and then that number of context length is exactly that. So it's like how much tokens can it accommodate in a single pass. Okay, great. And then yeah the models you have seen uh like maybe some like advertisement of these models. So I think like Gemini and others they're in the million territory. Um and uh you know does that mean it's all nice and pretty? you know, do we if we have like more context length, is it going to solve everything? Actually, not. There is a phenomenon that was recently dubbed as context rot in a paper from earlier this summer where basically the authors are experimenting the capacity of the model to retrieve some piece of information uh in a test called needle in a haststack. So basically they ask some question and in larger and larger pieces of text they bury the answer and they they try to look at the capacity of the model to surface that answer and then you can see that with respect to an increasing context length that ability to ground the information with the answer that is in the context decreases and yeah the paper I think is a very interesting one. it like controls with respect to what else is in the context like there is a term of like distractors where they like put some noise and then they see distractors basically contributes in decreasing the retrieval capability. So you know also what is in your context matters. Um, so this is why in general when you have a retrieval problem where you want to use your LLM to solve it, you have some good incentive to try to target as much as possible the right piece of context for your LLM to see and predict on. Okay, great. And yep. Yep. So the Yes. So the question is uh is the context length exactly what is shown during self attention? Uh yes. Yeah. So and then we're going to see so I think we saw last time that uh sometimes there are like some uh tricks that are used for the like complexity of the self attention mechanism not to be n squared. So this is what is being used to uh like manage basically the complexity of the computations as the context length grows. Yeah, but great call out that that's exactly uh what is it about. Okay, great. Any questions? Any other questions? Okay, great. Um so now let's define what do uh prompts usually look like. So there is no formal theory on how to structure a given prompt but this is these are the main lines that are usually found in uh prompts presented to models. So you can distinguish a part that is uh like setting up the context where you like just put the setting you know you make it clear to the model what you know kind of query you want to to issue. Then uh let's say if you have some task that you want the model to perform, you have instructions and then these instructions are like some sort of function that take as input something. So you add some inputs and uh in order to get what you want out of the model's response, you may want to add some constraints out of it. So here we we took our favorite example with a teddy bear. Uh the context is you know like what is the teddy bear basically what is the mood of the teddy bear? What do we want uh you know to do in order to um like make our teddy bear happy and then uh we we give some input regarding where the story that we want to generate is and then uh we give some constraints. If you want some other example uh in the LLMs that you query every day. So the context could be um you know some sentence that says you are chat GPT it is uh you know we are October 10th uh it is uh 4:44 p.m. So you set the setup. The instructions can be uh basically what the user queries alongside the input and then constraints might be things that you don't see as a user but that might be um you know present in the prompts given to the LLM such as safety instructions for example do not generate any contents that might lead to harm or things like this. So you know every time you see an input being fed to an LLM, I think this projection into four these four dimensions can be a good mental model of seeing you know which pieces correspond to what goal um in in that structure. Does that make sense? Okay, great. So now that we know like what kind of mindset we might have for inputs to an LLM, let's see how we can get an LLM to do what we want. And let's see how we can get an LLM to do what we want without tuning any weights. And we can do so with a concept called in context learning where the learning is a bit of a term that is overloaded because you don't actually learn anything with respect to the weights of the LLM but you can uh like distill some knowledge inside of it um you know as part of the context in order to do what you want. So you distinguish two main categories of in context learning. So there is one category that is very simple you know in mindset it's called zero shot. So basically you don't give anything other than your input um your input query you know you just ask the LLM to do what what you want to do and then there is another uh school of thought learning where you give examples of inputs and outputs to the LLM before asking the input that you're interested in. So in the case of teddy bears and the bedtime stories. So you might, you know, name your teddy bears. So maybe you have a teddy teddy bear that's called teddy and you generated a story. So you put your query, you put the story that you want to generate and you give multiple such examples and let's say you have another teddy bear that's called, you know, Bob, you know, and then you want to generate a story for Bob. So you put all of these examples and you ask the LLM to generate uh the story that you're interested in and then this is basically what we call a few shots setting. Okay, great. So now um generally when you look at the performance of the of the given u like of the resulting task giving examples tends to steer the LLM nicely into the task that you're interested in just because you have like given an idea to the model of what you are looking for and then it can use what it has learned during its training process to connect the dots and uh basically replicates um and then uh but of course you need to gather such examples. So this is costly uh this will put some more uh tokens in the context window. So you will need to like more compute uh but uh there is an interesting trade-off here that we see in recent models. So they're gaining more and more reasoning capabilities which is why I put the generally um nuance in Italy here. So they're generally better few shots but not always because these days uh with this like better models people have seen that with um like basically making the instruction better you could make the performance of in context learning on par or even better than if you provide examples because basically when you think of it when you provide examples you constrain your model into given sets of examples that are finite. So when you are at inference time, let's say you want to perform a task on a distribution of data that has not been seen, it is harder for the model to generalize because it will try to align on what it has seen in the context. Whereas if you turn your instructions into something that is more reasoning based, you explain how to do the task with natural language, it can use its reasoning abilities to actually do it. And then this is something that you see more and more these days. Um so the literature on this I think is still in in progress but you have some papers like plan and solve uh that I think came out recently and that showed you know if you ask the LM to plan itself and then solve something uh it can have very good performance. So yeah this is an interesting u this is an interesting fact. Okay great. So now that we have seen uh basically the kinds of learning that we have now we're going to see what we can do to improve the quality of the response. So there is this concept called chain of thought where uh researchers have seen that if you force the model to come up with some rational to some answer before actually giving it it would give higher performance. So this is what you what people call as chain of thought. It's basically what's led you to the answer. So here for example if you uh you know ask yourself you know how old is the teddy bear and if you force the model to respond directly with a number it might not be able to do the connection as to exactly why the teddy bear is a given age. Whereas when you give the kind of full chain of reasoning then it becomes clear as to you know what led to that response. So I think this is the main mindset behind this technique and uh basically this is something that is that can be used in in context learning. So if you give uh like few shot examples you know how old were was this teddy bear you give some number and then you slightly change the query and then based on the reasoning formatting and then the response the LLM can adjust the reasoning and the response accordingly and it will force the model to output some reasoning alongside the response which shows an improvement in um in basically metrics. Okay, great. And then yeah, something else that I want to say, you know, let's say you are uh you want to do a task and you want to do it well, you know, often times you will always have some samples that do not work and then for them you you want to have debugging ability, right? And usually when you debug with LLMs, you don't debug like the old days, you don't look at weights at at the intrinsics of the LLM. What you want is something more interpretable that comes out of it in terms of tokens and usually uh you know with these techniques you can see the reasoning that the model had before outputting a given response and you can debug basically what went wrong. So if you ask how old will will the bear be next year and if in the chain of thought it says hey we're in 2019 you know that somehow in your context you know oh maybe I put the wrong dates you know in there so you can like trace back to you can do some root causing very easily so it's also used for that and you know exactly in the same way as other techniques that increase the number of tokens. This is a trade-off that you have to manage that it will of course take more time, you know, to infer because you need to to generate more tokens, but typically we're fine with it. Any questions on coot? Okay, great. So, now let's take it one step further. Um so I want to introduce you know even to make coot even stronger. You can sample your model several times look at the answers it generates and then do some majority voting to select the answer that was predicted most of the times by a given LLM. And this is what we call self-consistency where basically you sample responses multiple times and then parse the actual answer. So basically you kind of factor out the whole reasoning and then try to target the answer and then by majority voting you can come up to an answer in a more um robust way. Yep. Yep. So the question is do you need to have some benchmark to know if it's better and yes absolutely I think the paper operates on top of all the arithmetic and then mathematical based ones and then I think one tangential question to yours is how can you locate the answer and then do majority majority voting on it. So typically you can put into the context some instruction that says put the actual answer last. So you can just like extract the last people I think uh use regex based techniques otherwise to extract the answer or you could even think of using some other LLM to extract the answer. So there is always a way to kind of do it. Uh but yeah to your point yes we need uh some benchmark and then ground truth labels to assert that this is indeed better. Yeah. So the request here, so the question is uh is it going to be sent to the same request as example? So typically you sample it in parallel. So basically you ask your model exactly what Ashin just mentioned. You sample from the probability distribution of BOS and whatever tokens you had the next token and you do that in several other uh kind of branches and you do that all of that in parallel and then you kind of parse the answer at the end of it. So basically the latency of this process is equal roughly to the maximum latency of either parallel generation because you can do all of this in parallel. >> Yeah. >> So so none of these go into the context of each other. They're all done in parallel and then you get final answer. Okay. Great. All good. Okay. Great. So now that we have seen a few prompting techniques uh I want to cover together um tricks that people have come up with at inference time to make the generation as efficient as possible. So um and basically uh yeah so in modern day models you have a lot of parameters you want to generate a lot of tokens how do you do it the most efficiently possible. So I want to us to divide this thought process into two parts. So we're going to see you know what methods we can come up with that give up that give us increased efficiency on an exact level. So you exactly do the same computations as you were supposed to do but you know in a more efficient way and I put some um you know hints as to what kind of techniques we're going to explore. So you know let's take let's try to look for techniques that avoid redundancies. Let's try to see what we could do to uh manage the memory in the best way and also let's try to see if we can uh reformulate uh the equations inside the LLM in a way that could simplify the the generation in practice. Then there is a second category that we're going to explore as well uh that is going to focus on what kind of approximations it might be fine to do and get a high quality answer uh at a le at at a lesser cost uh but you know it would be approximate. So we have you know what kind of um variations we could do on the architecture. Is there something we could do on the embeddings um to make them more efficient? And then maybe on the token prediction side, is there something we could uh do to make it, you know, faster? Does that sound good? So, we have approximately 22 minutes. We're going to try to go through all of them um here. Okay. So I grouped the categories of techniques into exact and approximate techniques. Uh but actually we're going to look at them in a grouped manner. First looking at the attention layer seeing what kind of techniques we could um have there and then in a second time in a second part we're going to look at the output layer and then see you know what we can do at the level of token generation to make things uh you know as as good as possible. Okay. So let's start at the attention level. So we have seen that uh you know for every token you need the current token to attend to the previous ones right in this masked self attention. So let's say you generate your sequence you are at a given token. So let's say you know you have generated a cute teddy bear and then now you are at ease. Now you have the query ease. You will compute the key representation and the and the value representation of ease because of course you have to do it. It's your current token. But we want to have a way to reuse the past computations we had done to compute the key representation of the previous tokens and the value representation of the previous tokens. Does that make sense as a goal? Does everyone agree? Okay. And more precisely, basically, we want to find a way for the key and value matrices to be saved. And um you know I'm not underlining the Q the Q part here because of course the query corresponding to the previous tokens are not going to be of interest uh for the the present token. So it's like the key and value part. Okay. So there is u like this concept of KV cache where the goal is to store these key and value matrices somewhere. um and reuse them directly from the cache. So like what I just mentioned here, you know, when you want to compute a given token, you would reuse the key and the value directly from the cache instead of computing it again. So yeah, so um yeah, so this is basically um you know representation of what we just mentioned here. Um yeah, does that make sense? Okay, awesome. So, what else we could could we do? Oh, yeah. Yeah, great question. So, during training, do we do KV caching? I would say during uh training, you have this concept of teacher forcing where you put all your inputs and pass it all together at once. So this concept of KV caching caching doesn't even come up. Uh yeah. Yeah. But great point. Yeah. Yep. >> Yep. Yep. Yes. So the question was uh you know what is the point of all this? We want to just reuse uh like the computations that were already done and then your answer is yes. Spot on. Any other questions? Okay great. So now that we have seen you know that we could cache these quantities. So what else could we do? So is there something from last week's lecture that we could reuse? you know, maybe something that reduces the amount of cash, you know, the key and value. Do we have some techniques sparse attention? Um, yeah, that could be that could be, but not here. Like, let's say you're not you're attending to everyone and you focus on the number of keys and values. Is there a a way to reduce this number? So just to recap, we have here I'm operating in the context of multi- head detention which is you have your H heads. So you have H number of query projections, H key projections, H value projections. Is is there any technique from last week that we could reuse that could reduce this number? Yeah, I heard it. Yeah, group query attention. Yeah, exactly. So we had this um you know concept of grouping keys and values together uh where basically the general formulation is called group query attention where you group these and then the external values h and one denote respectively the full multi head intention and then multi-query attention and then in uh modern day LLM's uh like a lot of papers they use uh GQA uh with with some uh group that is sensible value. Yeah. So this is also something we can do. Okay. Great. And now I'm going to go a little bit into the hardware side of things. So if we were to store the cache for all these values in a naive way, you know, at inference time. So let's say you receive so let's say I'm an inference server I receive queries from multiple users and let's say I receive a query one and I receive a query two um you know a naive way of storing the key and and value um you know matrices would be in reserving a pro a portion of the memory at the beginning that correspond to the entire context length. because you don't know you know where you're going to stop right your decoding because you stop your decoding when you hit the EOS token so you would have like this whole block of size uh you know context length like maximum context length that could be reserved so one observation is that it leads to a lot of waste so let's say if your context length is of size like 2k you have 2k reserved for a given uh you know request 2k Okay, there. So at any given time like let's say you want to get more requests, you want to serve more requests, your memory will very quickly not have enough space to uh accommodate uh them. Does this constraints or this challenge make sense? Yep. Okay. And then there is this paper uh that uh that is called page detention and it defines several um like quantities. So there is this like reserved quantity internal fragmentation and external fragmentation. Internal fragmentation is basically the space that is being reserved by the model to complete the request and the reserved spot is the subset of it that corresponds to tokens that were actually being used. So it's the kind of space that's actually used internal fragmentation. There is nothing in there but this was reserved. an external fragmentation. It's the memory uh management system that doesn't necessarily put one uh you know block one after another but has its own way of allocating uh memory blocks. So it might give some other gaps and they came up with a system that is called a page detention uh that is um you know powering uh one inference package called the VLM that uh solves this issue by mapping uh like the generation process by blocks of fixed size. So instead of uh allocating a whole portion of the memory to answer a given request, it breaks it down by smaller chunks. So I think the paper takes uh like a value of 16 for blocks. So as you can see, let's say you are in your generation process and you have used a given row, you would just start using another row without um you know wasting more space than that. And then you have some dictionary that maps token position indices to uh to basically their their cache values. So there is like a smart way of managing it and they show that it reduces fragmentation by quite a lot. Yeah. Okay. Great. Now let's do something else with this KV cache. So uh we just saw that you know you have your internal representation of your token and you project it into query key and value and then key and value is actually something that is of a dimension that is like non-negligible and you need to store uh each copies of it in each transformer block. So you have many of these uh vectors that you need to keep track of and is there a way to make that representation somehow more compact and this is a topic that uh DeepS has um you know tried to tackle in a concept called um I think it was called multi-latent attention. We're going to see uh so you know let's look at the vanilla case you know if you are in multi head detention then for a given representation of a token you have h projection matrices that turn it into a key does everyone agree with that the kind of uh self attention formula you know you have a projection matrix w k for keys that will project the token representation into some key and you have h heads, you have h such projections and you have h such resulting embeddings that you need to store in your cache cuz you have that for keys, you have that for values, that's a lot of um vectors to store and these keys and values they are uh you know quite long as well. Uh so let's see if we can like um make it smaller. What multi- latent attention does is that it factorizes these um you know projection matrix into an intermediary space that is of lower dimension than the space of keys. You have a first transformation that reduces the dimension and then another one that decompresses it. So this is the first u operation kind of that they did in order to make the reput representation more compact. But they did something else that is very smart. They said that the compression matrix could be shared across keys and values. which says for a given token representation the cache that you need to store for keys and for values is the same and then you would have u you know still different matrices here for the decompression part to like actually learn different representations for a key and value. But you know one um simplification here has been to like share it for like across keys and values and even better share it across the h heads. So instead of having h such embeddings you have just one uh and then you do that you know for key you do that for value. So at the end of it for every transformer block you have a single representation per token. Does that make sense? So not only you have you know less things to store the deep sev2 paper also showed a performance improvement that it's uh kind of credited like some regularization um consequence of doing so. So it it learns representations that are maybe more useful and shared across keys and values. So you know apparently there is also um performance benefits to it that is not just hardware based. Okay great. So now we have seen some trick. Oh yeah. Yeah. So the question is do you tune the low rank dimension? So the dimension itself is a design choice. It's fixed. So the question is is it the same uh like lower dimension for everyone? So the dimension size is fixed and is the same for everyone I think. So but it's a design choice. Yeah, you you could have different ones but I think in practice it's it might be the same one. >> Yep. Any other questions? Okay, great. So now we have less than 10 minutes. We are going to cover techniques that operate at the output token level. Um and then start with a concept called speculative dec decoding. That is um kind of a very interesting method that uses some smaller model to help the generation of a bigger model and then uses some scheme that makes the distribution output match the one of the target one. So it uses a combination of tricks of using like a smaller model to generate things and then gates it with some mathematical based properties to ensure we get a distribution that looks like the one of the big model. So here's what is the mind like here's the mindset of it. So let's just come back to our favorite example about teddy bears. So what you do is that you ask a a smaller model uh that we that the paper calls draft to generate next words. So you have like my teddy bear you know what could be next words. So you have one pass you know you find token is you fit token is here again you find cute and smart since the LLM is small this is typically done faster than with the big LLM. And then once you have all of these, you put the tokens that are predicted by the smaller LLM all as input to the target uh LLM that is like the bigger model like the one that you use to generate probability distributions for each of them. And then we're going to see that by having some rule on the output distribution of each of these tokens, you can simulate a distribution, a probability distribution of each token of each next token that's um kind of looks like the one of the target models. So here's basically how it goes. Um so it looks at the probability of the the token that the draft model has predicted. So if the probability of the draft model is bigger than the one of the draft model in the draft model's output distribution then you just accept the token. Otherwise you have some acceptance rejection mechanism that either accepts the token or rejects it. And uh you know let's say everything is accepted then in a single pass you were able to advance you know by way more tokens um and then if it fails then basically you resume the process of generation from that code token onwards with some uh adjustments on the distribution. So one question that you might ask from all of this you know this looks like a recipe like why is that matching the target distribution. So if you start from the law of total probability and write each term with these quantities then you will find the target distribution at the end. So it's an exercise that I encourage you to do and the to the paper that is attached to the slide here demonstrates it in like just a few lines. So it's a very simple proof. Uh and I think it's a very very interesting one. Does that does that make sense? Yep. Yeah. So I think it's Yeah. The question is is that rejection sampling? Yep. So, some of you might be familiar with it already. Does that make sense? Yeah. And then one thing that I didn't say is that why did we even put the last token here? You know, we put all the draft tokens, but also the last one that was predicted because by doing a single forward pass with all these draft tokens, you get for free the probability distribution of the token that comes after that that you can then just sample from Q k + one. So like just to give some summary of the rational um doing a single pass is like as expensive as doing one pass at a time because at inference time you are memory bound like in other words uh computations are not the limiting factor. It's basically the memory that will bottleneck your computation. So you want to do it on a smaller model and then on the big model you want to compute all of these probability distributions at once. Does that make sense? Okay, great. And then I want to talk about one last technique that is called multi-token prediction. It's the same. So by the way, this previous technique was called speculative decoding. And then this one is basically doing the same but so it's doing exactly a different thing but the draft model is embedded in the same model which is very powerful. So basically it's a model that uh attaches multiple heads on top of the representation of the last decoder. And the process here is that at training time, it doesn't do next word prediction. It does multi-word prediction. And at test time, the draft model is all your heads. And your uh main model is just the first heads. So you have like all your draft uh tokens that you then feed back to the first head and then do accept acceptance and rejection. So the paper does it in a greedy way. So doesn't do it with this like formula because since the architecture and then the objective function has changed. you don't have this like nice property of finding again the like next token predictions distribution but you have like a slight variation of it and uh yeah so like the interesting note out of the multi-token prediction is the change in objective function and then second the um the fact that the draft model and the target model are basically embedded in the same one so don't have to like separate the two and Um yeah so you do remember these slides we have explored techniques that can remedy each of these aspects. So yeah I highly recommend you know taking a look at the associated papers as well. And with that thank you very much.
